"RRR" redirects here. For other uses, see RRR (disambiguation).
RRR
RRR Poster.jpg
Theatrical release poster
Directed by	S. S. Rajamouli
Screenplay by	S. S. Rajamouli
Dialogues by	
Sai Madhav Burra
Rama Rajamouli (additional)
Story by	V. Vijayendra Prasad
Produced by	D. V. V. Danayya
Starring	
N. T. Rama Rao Jr.
Ram Charan
Ajay Devgn
Alia Bhatt
Shriya Saran
Samuthirakani
Ray Stevenson
Alison Doody
Olivia Morris
Cinematography	K. K. Senthil Kumar
Edited by	A. Sreekar Prasad
Music by	M. M. Keeravani
Production
company	
DVV Entertainment
Distributed by	
Pen Studios (North India)
Lyca Productions (Tamil Nadu)
KVN Productions (Karnataka)
HR Pictures (Kerala)
Release date	
25 March 2022
Running time	182 minutes[1][2]
Country	India
Language	Telugu
Budget	₹550 crore[3]
Box office	est. ₹1,200–1,258 crore[4][5]
RRR[a] is a 2022 Indian Telugu-language epic action drama film directed by S. S. Rajamouli, who co-wrote the film with V. Vijayendra Prasad. It was produced by D. V. V. Danayya of DVV Entertainment. The film stars N. T. Rama Rao Jr., Ram Charan, Ajay Devgn, Alia Bhatt, Shriya Saran, Samuthirakani, Ray Stevenson, Alison Doody, and Olivia Morris. It centers around fictional versions of two Indian revolutionaries, Alluri Sitarama Raju (Charan) and Komaram Bheem (Rama Rao), their friendship, and their fight against the British Raj.

Rajamouli came across stories about the lives of Rama Raju and Bheem and connected the coincidences between them, imagining what would have happened had they met, and been friends. The film was announced in March 2018. Principal photography of the film began in November 2018 in Hyderabad and continued until August 2021, owing to delays caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. It was filmed extensively across India, with a few sequences filmed in Ukraine and Bulgaria. The film's soundtrack and background score were composed by M. M. Keeravani, with cinematography by K. K. Senthil Kumar and editing by A. Sreekar Prasad. Sabu Cyril is the film's production designer whilst V. Srinivas Mohan supervised the visual effects.

Made on a budget of ₹550 crore (US$72 million), RRR is the most expensive Indian film to date. The film was initially scheduled for theatrical release on 30 July 2020, which was postponed multiple times due to production delays and the COVID pandemic. RRR was released theatrically on 25 March 2022. With ₹240 crore (US$30 million) worldwide on its first day, RRR recorded the highest opening-day earned by an Indian film. It emerged as the highest-grossing film in its home market of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, grossing over ₹415 crore (US$52 million).[6] The film grossed ₹1,200 crore (US$150 million) – ₹1,258 crore (US$160 million) worldwide, setting several box office records for an Indian film, including the third highest-grossing Indian film and second highest-grossing Telugu film worldwide.[4][7]

RRR received universal praise for Rajamouli's direction, screenplay, performances, soundtrack, action sequences, cinematography, and visuals. The film was considered one of the ten best films of the year by the National Board of Review, making it only the second non-English language film ever to make it to the list.[8] The song "Naatu Naatu" won the Best Original Song award at the 95th Academy Awards, making it the first song from an Indian film, as well as the first from an Asian film, to win in this category.[9][10] The film became the third Indian film and first Telugu film to receive nominations at the Golden Globe Awards, including Best Foreign Language Film, and won Best Original Song for "Naatu Naatu", making it the first Indian (as well as the first Asian) nomination to win the award.[11][12] RRR also won the Best Foreign Language Film and the Best Song award at the 28th Critics' Choice Awards.

Plot
In 1920, during the British Raj, Governor Scott Buxton and his wife Catherine visit a forest in Adilabad. There they abduct Malli, an artistically-talented young girl from the Gond tribe. Enraged, the tribe's guardian Komaram Bheem embarks for Delhi to rescue her, disguising himself as a Muslim named Akhtar. Elsewhere, the Nizamate of Hyderabad, sympathetic to the Raj, warns Scott's office of the impending danger. Undeterred, Catherine enlists A. Rama Raju, an ambitious officer in the Indian Imperial Police, to quell the threat. Seeking clues to Malli's whereabouts, Raju and his uncle, Venkateswarulu, attend several pro-independence gatherings where he feigns to support independence.

Months later, Lachhu, Bheem's gullible aide, believing Raju's ruse, attempts to recruit him into Bheem's plot. Before introducing Raju to Bheem, Lachhu discovers Bheem's identity as a police officer and flees. Shortly after, Bheem and Raju encounter each other, unaware of their opposing allegiances. While working in concert to save a boy from a train wreck, they form a friendship, gradually growing close. Raju assists Bheem in courting Jenny, Scott's niece, unaware that Bheem plans to infiltrate Scott's residence. When Jenny takes Bheem to her residence, Bheem locates the room where Malli is held captive; he promises Malli to free her. Meanwhile, Raju deduces Lachhu's true identity and apprehends him. While being interrogated, Lachhu goads a banded krait into attacking Raju, then warns him of his imminent fate and that the antidote is only known to the Gonds.